release: v1.49.0 (#5418)
apollographql/router: .changesets/feat_timbotnik_experimental_studio_otlp_tracing.md

### Add experimental support for sending traces to Studio via OTLP ([PR #4982](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/4982))

As the ecosystem around OpenTelemetry (OTel) has been expanding rapidly, we are evaluating a migration of Apollo's internal
tracing system to use an OTel-based protocol.

In the short-term, benefits include:

> - A comprehensive way to visualize the Router execution path in Studio.
> - Additional spans that were previously not included in Studio traces, such as query parsing, planning, execution, and more.
> - Additional metadata such as subgraph fetch details, Router idle / busy timing, and more.
> 
> Long-term, we see this as a strategic enhancement to consolidate these 2 disparate tracing systems.  
> This will pave the way for future enhancements to more easily plug into the Studio trace visualizer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A comprehensive way to visualize the router execution path in GraphOS Studio.
- Additional spans that were previously not included in Studio traces, such as query parsing, planning, execution, and more.
- Additional metadata such as subgraph fetch details, router idle / busy timing, and more.

Long-term, we see this as a strategic enhancement to consolidate these two disparate tracing systems.  
This will pave the way for future enhancements to more easily plug into the Studio trace visualizer.
```
